Hello? Yeah,
okay. Okay. Well, can I still ask you about, um...
Okay. The Connecticut... Well, can you tell me
about... So, that's about... You just wrote
articles when you're underneath? When you're
underground, rather? Yes. And you... Yeah, what
about the Connecticut conference?
And, well, what kind of effect did that have? Were
you actually effective?
It seems like it would have been very difficult for
you to get around. Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. So when the climate had changed, that's
when you decided to come out, right? You felt as
though it was safer? Sorry? OK. What reasons did
you have for coming out at the time you did? Oh,
well, the first seven had come out having
done their time. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
Would you mind being a little more specific on how
the climate had changed?
Uh-huh.
So
did you think you'd have a better chance at a trial,
perhaps?
Did you think you might have a better chance in the
trial since... The trial? Yeah. Let... When
you... I'm sorry, when you came out, after coming
out, that perhaps they'd... They wouldn't indict
you? Perhaps they'd... We already were
sentenced. Okay, well... You mean... That you
could have appealed it? For three years? Yeah. No,
we certainly expected that. Yeah. Because it was
not before a trial, before a trial. Yeah.
Yeah.
You also...
Well,
what did you write in your book, The Enemy
Forgotten? You wrote that while you were
underground?
I
turned myself in. I took a letter to the press.
Yeah. They told me that I would appear fully
square. Yeah. Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
that
the American
people, by being misled to see the enemy abroad,
the Soviet Union was forgetting the real enemy.
And of course, the captors, the tremendous
captains across those who ruled the country, had
the enemy historically, a whole history of
America
Yeah.
I see. Well, I'd like to talk about Hoover for a
minute, his counterintelligence programs, his
counterintelligence programs that he
explicitly gave admission to forgery by
typewriter. That's right. And you think it's
possibly Aldrich Hiss' The Pumpkin Case, the
letters they found? Well, I
myself have
believed the evidence. Yeah. The first time
there's any public evidence is when I have my book
from the documents of the FBI itself. Yeah.
Uh-huh.
and
that they could forge typewriters, principle
typewriters, in a much longer period of time. And
then in this instance, they preferred the use of
firemen, the first of the name was Fortree and
Hadley. And that was the first evidence that had
ever been made public that the FBI did know how to
forge typewriters. that
that was in
charge of his case. Now, in history, there was a
court in Antwerp that said, I have been framed by
typewriters. Yeah. Because they claimed that
certain documents were written on this
typewriter. Goodness. Do you know other people
that had that done, too, besides William
Albertson that you cite in the book? Well, William
Albertson was an ex-skeleton in the party.
Aren't
a lot of the pages that you have, of the 20,000 or so
pages, blackened?
Uh-huh. The
only
things I could get were black pages, not a single
word. Goodness. And I had made trips abroad. I know
they'd go through a lot and all that, but not a word.
And they only gave... And when the FBI, the pages
you have from the FBI are only of your exploits,
correct?
That's right. It doesn't deal with the others who
were on the ground. Those are my own files. Wow. So
have the others gotten theirs, or have they? No,
I think I'm the only one. I want to thank the young
lawyers. Uh-huh.
Good.
I see. I see. Well, can I ask you about Leavenworth?
You seem, from your book, it's as though you were
treated worse than some criminals because you
were a communist. Correct?
Some criminals, yes.
Well,
of course. There wasn't any personal animosity. I
think it was part of the climate. They were very
fearful. Somebody, some man in prison said, come
right
to his
congressman and say, well, look,
how is this commie getting along so well? Why do you
think he has a hefty job in prison and so forth? And
that this would create a furor which would affect
his leadership. The furor was better than the
soft-eye communism. And so they decided to be out
there. They were not knowing the other soft-eye
communism. They were going to be hired on the top of
this. And that's what they're trying to do. So
they're just protecting the wardens, and we're
just trying to protect themselves, then?
Yes, at one point, there was a word coming in that
they had been cited by one of the judges.
And
even your
relationship with your lawyer was, your
supposedly confidential was not, was invaded,
right? Violated?
My lawyer would come twice a year down there to
discuss with me, possibly.
Confidential.
Goodness.
Well,
was John Winston, he was in... Henry Winston.
Henry, I'm sorry. Yes, Henry Winston. He was in
dire need of medical care. He had a brain tumor,
correct?
Uh-huh.
Uh
huh. Uh huh.
Uh-huh.
Uh
huh. Uh huh.
Well, why do you think they...
Why do you think they were so negligent? Or do you
think it was to appear not soft on communism? Or it
could have happened to... Do you think it was
because it was Henry Winston? Or could it have
happened to any prisoner? I
would say it could have happened to others
as well. I see. Okay. Although one would have to be
in the mind of putting a position or examining
whether he was right or he was wrong. Yeah. It's
going to have to happen. It's going to have to
happen. It's going to have to happen. It's going to
have to happen. It's going to have to happen. Now,
of course,
I had
a big, you know, level of country where the
carpenter shop, I had actually, and I did my
kneecap. Yeah. And there I had a doctor and a
patella kneecaps put together and sutured
together. And I had a Dr. Hyde. Mm-hmm.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. Well, getting back to your confidential
conversations with Mr. App, you said something
about that there were, that they created, they
fabricated conversations they assumed you had
made? Well,
yes. In one case, they had John App, according to
the document, telling me about... I'd
say that the party organizations come to town and
get at this point exactly where it is, and the
mentioning names of people who were involved, who
were doing vocates, and so on. It's all a fabric
thing. I never knew the people that were mentioned
there, and I never knew anything about the
communist organization in that particular town.
I
believe part of that is that we think back of the
whole system of the FBI, including their
organization, that Greta was listening in on
this, learning the fabric of the stories in order
to make it clear that he was really out of his job and
that something sinister was really happening.
And also, I don't exclude the fact Possibly
they were trying to get some, create some
artificial and to ditch on that in case they wanted
to . Yeah. . I see. . Yeah. And
Mr.
Winston, it took until 61 under an order of
clemency from JFK for him to be released?
Yeah. Yeah.
Which
they tried to prevent you from working in to begin.
So you were in contact with Gus for a while, Gus
Hall, in Leavenworth? Oh,
yes. When I came to Leavenworth as well,
and a little bit, as I said, he was picked up three
months after. Yeah. And he still had about a year to
go. So were you allowed to collaborate on papers
or? Oh, no, no, no. Nothing? I was very strict. We
were ordered very strictly that I could write
nothing. Uh-huh.
I
see.
So did you talk about the party? Well,
obviously. We talked about what we could gather.
Uh-huh.
I
see.
And also, when you were leaving the prison, when
you were getting out, the FBI wanted to avoid
publicity about that, so they shipped you in
secret to New York Well, what happened there was
when Kess Hall was released, he was released
directly.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah. Afraid of too many sympathizers. Well, what
have you been doing since then? Yeah. I
see.
Can
you hold on one minute? I'm going to change it. I'm
going to change the tape again.
Yeah, I'm sorry. Just give me a couple more
minutes, I promise you. I'm closing down. Hold on.